rewrite to be more concise; improve wording (#5)
mlpack/mlpack4_joss: paper.md

# Summary

For over 15 years, the mlpack machine learning library has served as a

> ``swiss army knife'' for C++-based machine learning [@curtin2013mlpack].

Reviewer: The "is it Markdown or LaTeX" question always confuses me with JOSS :smile:

Its efficient implementations of common and cutting-edge machine learning
algorithms have been used in a wide variety of scientific and industrial applications.
This paper overviews mlpack 4, a significant upgrade over its predecessor [@curtin2018mlpack].
The library has been significantly refactored and redesigned to facilitate
an easier prototyping-to-deployment pipeline, including bindings to other languages
(Python, Julia, R, Go, and the command line)
that allow prototyping to be seamlessly performed in environments other than C++.

# Statement of Need

The use of machine learning has become ubiquitous in almost every scientific
discipline and countless commercial applications [@jordan2015machine,@carleo2019machine].
There is one important commonality to virtually all of these applications:
machine learning is often computationally intensive, due to the 
large number of parameters and large amounts of training data.
This was the main motivator for the original development of mlpack in the C++
language, which allows for efficient close-to-the-metal implementations [@curtin2013mlpack].

> Development and deployment of applications that use machine learning can also be

Reviewer: Just a note here, I'll add back in a simple transition to start this paragraph; I want to approach this section as "okay, everyone always says computational efficiency is important, and we have that covered, but *also* we have the deployment problem that must be addressed, and this deployment problem is generally overlooked, at least until mlpack 4 came along and saved the day for everyone everywhere".  (I might be overstating our contribution there :))

Author: sounds good

Once a user has developed a machine learning workflow in the language of their
choice, deployment is straightforward.  The mlpack library is now header-only,
and directly depends only on three libraries: Armadillo [@sanderson2016armadillo],
ensmallen [@curtin2021ensmallen], and [cereal](https://github.com/USCILab/cereal).
When using C++, the only linking requirement is to an efficient implementation
of BLAS and LAPACK (required via Armadillo).  This significantly eases deployment;
a standalone C++ application with only a BLAS/LAPACK dependency is easily
deployable to many environments, including standard Linux-based Docker containers,
Windows environments, and resource-constrained embedded environments.
To this end, mlpack's build system now also contains a number of tools for
cross-compilation support, including the ability to easily statically link
compiled programs (important for some deployment environments).

# Major Changes

Below we detail a few of the major changes present in mlpack 4.  For a complete
and exhaustive list (including numerous bug fixes and new techniques), the
`HISTORY.md` file (distributed with mlpack) can be consulted.

*Removed dependencies.*

> In accordance with the vision document [@mlpack2021vision], the majority of the

Reviewer: Thanks for catching the missing citation here :+1:

refactoring and redesign work focused on reducing dependencies and compilation overhead.
This has motivated the replacement of the [Boost](https://www.boost.org)

> C++ libraries, upon which mlpack previously depended upon,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
C++ libraries, upon which mlpack previously depended,
```

Support for the Julia, Go, and R languages 
[@bezanson2017julia, @pike2012go, @rcore2022, @parihar2022rmlpack]
has been added via mlpack's automatic binding system.  These bindings
can be used by installing mlpack from the language's package manager
(`Pkg.jl`, `go get`, `install.packages('mlpack')`).
Furthermore, since mlpack's reduced dependency footprint has significantly
simplified the deployment process, mlpack's Python dependencies
are now available for numerous architectures both on PyPI and in `conda-forge`.

*Cross-compilation support and build system improvements.* 
mlpack's build configuration now supports easy cross-compilation, for instance
via toolchains such as [buildroot](https://buildroot.org).  By specifying a few
flags, a user may produce a working mlpack setup for a variety of embedded systems.
This required the implementation of a dependency auto-downloader,
which is capable of downloading [OpenBLAS](https://github.com/xianyi/OpenBLAS)
and compiling (if necessary) for the target architecture.  The auto-downloader
can also be enabled and used for any situation, thus easing installation and
deployment.

# Acknowledgements

> Development of mlpack is a community effort. It is the product of hard work by

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Development of mlpack is community-led. It is the product of hard work by
```
I'll make this change to highlight that we are actually, really, truly community-led, not guided by corporate overlords like many other machine learning libraries.  (Not as a knock on those libraries, but I think it is important to differentiate.)
